# Database Design Final Project Spring 2021 - CS 3200-04 (Professor Jose Annunziato)
## Team Members:
- Nicholas Fantasia 
- William Victoria
- Ming Yan

## Problem Statement
Increasingly, the music industry is becoming larger with more and more artists publishing new pieces of music. There are so many genres of music, different collections of albums, and a myriad of tracks that are published every week for fans to listen to. With a variety of artists publishing new music, it becomes much harder to find the collection of music associated with an artist or a genre of music. Fans of a particular artist might want to find similar artists or genres related to their favorite artist. In addition, there is a vast amount of music information that is constantly updated and needed to be referenced by both listeners and major music streaming and sharing platforms alike. Conventional methods of music collections have often been seen as vast, unreliable, and sometimes ambiguous for people to identify different artists and other attributes of music. As a result, there should be a solution that provides a reliable and unambiguous form of music identification, enabling both people and computers to have meaningful conversations regarding music.

## Solution Statement
Our group has created a normalized music database that contains various attributes related to an artist’s discography. Contained within the database is a collection of artists, the albums that they have produced, tracks associated with each album, and the genre of music most associated with the tracks. In addition, there is a user interface screen that allows creating, reading,  updating, and deleting of each of the artists models and domain object models (albums and tracks in this case). This implementation of a music database and user interface to interact with the various models contained within the database aim to provide a reliable and unambiguous form of music identification, hoping to allow fans of music and machines to learn more about a specific artist’s collection of music and have meaningful conversations about the music. The project intends to solve the issues of finding more information about an artist’s discography as well as make it easy to access and contribute to the ever-expanding collection of music.

## Intended Users
Some typical users that would use this solution would be music sharing and streaming platforms such as Spotify and Apple Music. This solution would be helpful for them to organize the enormous number of artists publishing their work to the respective streaming platforms. When an artist releases a brand-new album, this solution can be used to make a record of the information about the album as well as the tracks contained within the album. Not only does the music database organize the streaming platform’s architecture, but it also allows customers and music fans to easily find and access the music they want to listen to with little difficulty. Fans can look up different albums by artists they love and learn new things about the artists in general as well as their large collection of albums/tracks. Fans could utilize the database in a similar way to the music streaming platforms with respect to their own collection of music. Additionally, disc jockeys at a radio station must be able to benefit in a similar fashion. A disc jockey must be able to find the music he/she wants to play and do it quickly, so having a database of various artists and their albums/tracks allows for the disc jockeys to access the music they intend to play on the radio.

## Domain Objects
There are two domain objects implemented in this solution. One is “albums”, which maintains a many-to-one relationship with the “artists” model. The other one is “tracks”, which maintains a many-to-one relationship with the “albums” model. This can be taken as one artist can have numerous albums, and in each of the albums, there could be several tracks. Because of these relationships, the team has included a foreign key attribute in each of the domain objects. The foreign key in albums references the primary key in artists, and the foreign key in tracks references the primary key in albums. In addition, albums contains the following attributes: album name, release date, and number of songs. Tracks contain the track title, length, and genre.
